# Parenthood

Being or becoming a parent can be challenging at home and at work. No matter if you are already a parent or are going to be one, you might have some questions about what Blendle has in place for Blendle moms and dads. This page should contain all the information you seek.

- **Maternity leave**
    
    When you're pregnant, we recommend you inform your lead and HR no later than 3 months before your due date. This way we have enough time for the necessary paperwork with UWV. We also need a pregnancy statement from your doctor with the due date.
    
    **Some practical info:**
    
    1. Absence during pregnancy:
        
        If you happen to get ill because of your pregnancy or if you have to be absent because of doctor appointments, please inform your lead. Our general guidelines on [Holidays](https://www.notion.so/Holidays-x-7eb8ac8f904b4e50a7c23133a7992f2c?pvs=21) and [Sickness](https://www.notion.so/Sickness-absence-7de9e568d0c2452682cc14e525c2ea69?pvs=21) absence also apply in this case.
        
    2. Salary:
        
        Nothing changes here. Blendle pays your full salary.
        
    3. Duration of maternity leave:
        
        By law you are entitled to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. And you decide when your leave starts. The leave can start anywhere between 6-4 weeks before your due date. If you are pregnant with twins or more... you can leave between 10-8 weeks before your due date. Please let us know if you encounter unexpected complications during this time. We understand it's not always easy and will do our best to accommodate your situation.
        
        There are a couple more exceptions that can affect your maternity leave. You can either contact HR for more info or [visit the government’s info page.](https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/zwangerschapsverlof-en-bevallingsverlof/vraag-en-antwoord/hoe-lang-duurt-zwangerschapsverlof-en-bevallingsverlof)
        
    
    **To-do during pregnancy:**
    
    1. At least 3 months before your due date:
        - Tell your lead and HR that you are pregnant
        - Show your pregnancy statement to HR
    2. At least 3 weeks before your leave:
        - Together with your lead, set a date for your leave and inform HR
        - Discuss possible work-related adjustments with your lead (like parental leave, breastfeeding)
    3. Within 4 weeks after birth:
        - Inform HR of the birth date
        - Let your lead and HR know if you need anything when you are back at work
    
- **Birth leave**
    
    As a partner (if you are not the one giving birth) you are also entitled to leave after the birth of your child. The official term for this is birth leave. By law you can take 1 week off to enjoy your new offspring and help your partner. We think that is way too short, so we are adding 3 extra weeks on top of that. So you have the option to take 4 weeks off, but if you don't want to, you do not have to :). During these **4 weeks** you get your full salary paid. Just make sure you and your lead have made arrangements about the continuity of the ongoing projects/work within your team during your absence.Again, please let us know if you and your partner encounter unexpected complications. We’ll do our best to help where we can.
    
- **Parental leave**
    
    As a parent (both parents) you are also entitled to parental leave for every child. In total, you can have **26 x your weekly work hours** off per child. If you work 40 hours a week, it would be 1040 hours total parental leave for each child.  So this right applies to each child separately and you can make use of it until a child is 8 years old. You can choose to take time off either for a longer period at once, or spread it. For example 1 day per week off.
    
    **Important note→** You won't be getting salary and other allowances during the parental leave. And technically, you are not saving up for holiday hours and you are not saving up for holiday allowance.
    
    Please let your lead and HR know if you are planning to take parental leave. HR can help you with all your questions.