# Office

# Our office and everything in it

**Workplace:** 

We have a semi-flex workspace. Some people like to sit at the same desk 80% of the time and switch after a few months when joining another team or because they want a different view. Most teams are clustered together, simply because it's handy when working together. So do whatever helps you focus, collaborate or brainstorm.

---

**The headphone rule:** 

We don't like rules tbh, but focus is important to finish tasks. You are the boss of your agenda and you are in charge of when you can be disturbed and when you can't. Headphones on = do not disturb. Simple, right? Try it out!

---

**Lunch**

~12 o' clock, there is lunch in the canteen, free of cost. Joëlle is in charge of lunch — ask her if you need anything (allergies for example).

What you can expect from lunch:

- Healthy: We try to offer products that are not bad for you!
- Enough for everyone: The goal is to have enough food for everyone. But sometimes we just run out of stock, bad luck... No worries, we will get some more next time.
- Variety: Variation is good. But it's also good to keep some things special. Like luxury products or snacks, we order these occasionally. This should keep it special and within our budget.
- If you have any food related suggestions, be free to send them to officemanagement@blendle.com. But remember this, we can not cater to all individual needs. But we always take suggestions into consideration.

---

**Dinner - Delivery by Smulderskookt.nl**

Blendle offers dinner to whoever is staying later than normal office hours. It doesn't matter what team you are in, if you are in the office during evening hours you can order food.

The dinner is catered by Smulderskookt.nl. and is delivered Monday - Thursday between 18.00 and 19.00 pm. When Smulders is closed, you can use a different site like Thuisbezorgd or whatever.

To order your dinner, go to the **[order sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19hJ4XFcv0E4IGh9GxnEmGq86k573dDSa0jG8wVmXcz8/edit#gid=148942457)** (not a public link) **.** Choose the dish you want to order from the tab (with that days date on it) and fill  it in the order sheet table with the right date:

[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19hJ4XFcv0E4IGh9GxnEmGq86k573dDSa0jG8wVmXcz8/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19hJ4XFcv0E4IGh9GxnEmGq86k573dDSa0jG8wVmXcz8/edit#gid=0)(not a public link)  leave your name by the dish you want to order.

- You can access the sheet and order until 15:00 pm
- The soups and salads might be too small as a whole meal, so consider them side dishes
- The menu is announced in the morning of the delivery day
- You can order your Friday and Sunday dinner in advance on Thursday and keep it in the fridge until then
- Smulderskookt does not deliver during national holidays

---

**Snacks and more**

There will be beer, soda and snacks after All-hands presentations. 

On any other regular day:

- We might have chips etc, but op = op. We order snacks sometimes.
- This also goes for the cookies, fizzy drinks, beer or club mate.
- Fruit is something we want to provide everyday. If you notice we run out of fruit too fast and too often, ping our Office Manager so she can fix this.

If you are a big snack lover or don't want to be left empty-handed, consider bringing your own snacks.

---

**Clean up your shit**

You need to clean up your own shit. Take your cups to the dishwasher. Throw away your stuff. Don't forget to do a chore on your own initiative every now and then. Do the dishwasher (turn it on, clean it out), throw away trash or clean the coffee machine. This 'system' works really well and keeps us away from bullshit like dishwasher duty.

Fahima is here every day, twice a day to clean this place, including toilets. 

---

**Think about the environment.**

Kill the lights. Turn down the heating. Don't waste paper #deadtrees. We separate our garbage into paper, glass and rest. Don't waste food: feel free to take home bread on Friday.

# Work at Blendle

---

If you want to work at Blendle you can check our [job ads here](https://blendle.homerun.co/). If you want to be kept in the loop about Blendle, you can sign up for [our behind the scenes newsletter](https://blendle.homerun.co/yes-keep-me-posted/tr/apply?token=8092d4128c306003d97dd3821bad06f2).